...menustart

 - [CS294: Deep Reinforcement Learning, Spring 2017](#e5224a4192d7d98cf2cfb02d8b88d0b6)
 - [Week1 : Introduction](#d55aded290bde38db07d72e422f639d3)
     - [Why deep reinforcement learning?](#df4bd352d8fd54cba33186a5c58789c6)
     - [What is Reinforcement Learning?](#d099b82636a7133a9be2ed1a65d90aab)
     - [Motor Control and Robotics](#beabc7257e125139bae2116fa68eed75)
     - [Business Operations](#e4877f95ac6cdee98e0e334f0b2af574)
     - [What Is Deep Reinforcement Learning?](#a4be8d97ec306c67c22de626ad2f7ac0)
     - [How Does RL Relate to Other ML Problems?](#38d0da35b1b72ad8a7110ca5a18d6e82)
 - [Week2 : Supervised learning and decision making (Levine)](#84ef9b6582de04cfee223127a3e7f074)
     - [Terminology & notation](#b9561a10be7130bc0ad64d10b00f492b)

...menuend


<h2 id="e5224a4192d7d98cf2cfb02d8b88d0b6"></h2>


# CS294: Deep Reinforcement Learning, Spring 2017

http://rll.berkeley.edu/deeprlcourse

https://www.reddit.com/r/berkeleydeeprlcourse/


<h2 id="d55aded290bde38db07d72e422f639d3"></h2>


# Week1 : Introduction

<h2 id="df4bd352d8fd54cba33186a5c58789c6"></h2>


## Why deep reinforcement learning?

 - Deep = can process complex sensory input
    - … and also compute really complex functions
 - Reinforcement learning = can choose complex actions

<h2 id="d099b82636a7133a9be2ed1a65d90aab"></h2>


## What is Reinforcement Learning?

 - agent interacting with a previously unknown environment, trying to maximize cumulative reward
 - Formalized as partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP)


<h2 id="beabc7257e125139bae2116fa68eed75"></h2>


## Motor Control and Robotics

Robotics:

 - Observations: camera images, joint angles
 - Actions: joint torques
 - Rewards: stay balanced, navigate to target locations, serve and protect humans


<h2 id="e4877f95ac6cdee98e0e334f0b2af574"></h2>


## Business Operations

Inventory Management

 - Observations: current inventory levels
 - Actions: number of units of each item to purchase
 - Rewards: profit


<h2 id="a4be8d97ec306c67c22de626ad2f7ac0"></h2>


## What Is Deep Reinforcement Learning?

 - Reinforcement learning using neural networks to approximate functions
    - Policies (select next action)
    - Value functions ( **measure goodness of states or state-action pairs** )
    - Dynamics Models (predict next states and rewards)
        - try to approximate how the system is going to evolve over time

<h2 id="38d0da35b1b72ad8a7110ca5a18d6e82"></h2>


## How Does RL Relate to Other ML Problems?

 - Reinforcement learning:
    - Environment samples input **x<sub>t<sub> ~ P(x<sub>t<sub> | x<sub>t-1<sub>, y<sub>t-1<sub>)**
        - **Environment is stateful: input depends on your previous actions!**
        - Agent takes action ŷt = f(x<sub>t<sub>)
    - Agent receives cost c<sub>t<sub> ~ P(c<sub>t<sub> | x<sub>t<sub> , ŷ<sub>t<sub> ) where P a probability distribution unknown to the agent.


<h2 id="84ef9b6582de04cfee223127a3e7f074"></h2>


# Week2 : Supervised learning and decision making (Levine)

<h2 id="b9561a10be7130bc0ad64d10b00f492b"></h2>


## Terminology & notation 

 - x<sub>t<sub> : state
 - o<sub>t<sub> : observation
 - u<sub>t<sub> : action
 - π(u<sub>θ<sub>|o<sub>t<sub>)  : policy
 
 - c : cost function
 - r : reward 
    - c = - r



